I'm gonna grab my laptop yours too
um so moving on uh into the next part of
the program uh our next speaker is
artist Paige Emery who's exploring the
ecological body and the ritual
interactions that we have worlds her
work Bridges Poetics and practice Praxis
mysticism in theory healing rituals and
environmental science this takes shape
through a variety of different kinds of
Works art installations for
intercommunication between humans and
non-humans sound pieces for deep
listening between the psychic and
physical Realms and healing Gardens for
non-linear time and regenerative
regenerative metabolism you can see her
sculptural works in the back of the
theater they're the large Blue
structures and I thought I'll leave it
over to Paige to to tell you more about
those Works give us a couple seconds as
we get set up thanks so much guys
thank you
hi everyone
are you receiving the sound
services
yeah it's coming through
if it doesn't work
anyways
uh yes
oh there we go
[Music]
okay
can you hear me okay
you hear the music
um would you mind turning this down in
my Monitor slightly please
thank you perfect
[Music]
hi everyone
video's gone
open
create environment
I'd like to open with three deep breaths
together if you feel
willing and able to join me
inhale through your nose
or stomach and your lungs
top of your head
exhale out any tensions in your body
any physical manifestations of stress
below the ground
another deep inhale through your nose
up your stomach into your lungs
fail a slow long breath exhale out any
feelings of stress
or any expectations of what this is
what this is going to be down through
your toes down to the ground
last inhale fill up your stomach
fill up your lungs to their greatest
capacity
and hold your breath at the top of your
head
and with this exhale
I would like you to Exhale out any
anxieties relating to time
and a nice audible sigh together
how do we dream outside of someone
else's dream
this is not only a question of how
but when
an opening of the when can re-situate
the how
an opening of the when can be done
through divinatory practices an owneric
method an owneric lens to Think Through
for emancipatory healing
ourselves a geological force with
footsteps of climate collapse further
than our own Consciousness need a sense
of time Beyond ourselves
a more than human time a more than a
human time is one that is ecologically
conscious at its most extended reach and
offers hope and renewal at its most
intimate to reach here
in westernized modernity we are in a
Time shifting and ecological
Consciousness both a cause and
Act of a dying way of worlding that
calls for a new way of welding
in this tumultuous rupture where our
relationship with the future is often
one interwoven with anxiety we need a
reconfigure
figuring of how a future is brought into
me
[Music]
divination
a practice
of making sense of the world in which
one seeks more than human guidance
outside of their own predetermined
timeline and mode of thinking
a therapeutic coding can be accentuated
by the likes of what philosopher
Federico companion calls a prophetic
Culture
by which at the end a Time segment of a
civilization
when the future Fades away from the
fields of possibilities
a prophetic approach to culture sees the
possibility
for a subject to escape from captivity
from a pre-established frame of sentence
corresponding with this time Bridge of
worlding between the hopelessness of a
Dying World and the hope of actualizing
a new one
I'm exploring divination as a conduit
outside the hold of a deterministic
capture
a way of rather than predicting the
future
unpredicting the future
adoption
release
the dominating time scape
fabricated with westernized capitalists
infrastructure is the linear Progressive
one
the one that Ursa Le Guin refers to as
times killing Arrow mode of the
techno-heroic where progress rides an
insatiable growth on the wheels of a
goal-oriented acceleration that
modernity has evolved with
the techno-heroic Timescape is a hunger
for material permanence that can outlive
death
a race against the clock
disrupting death means disrupting the
cycles that allow death to bring life
this disruption is the climate crisis
one could pose that capitalism runs by
its own apparatus of divinatory method a
neoliberal market set to determine the
future
future of arbitrary value preserved to
justify ecological Devastation preserve
to justify the debt held in our bodies
in a multitude of manifestations from
running on borrowed time
self-fulfilling prophetic machine can be
seen as a forest towards what Mark
Fisher has called the cancellation of
the future
but this does not have to be a
cancellation of all futures
just a cancellation of the times killing
Aero mode linear Progressive one that is
currently dominating
swimming in the magma of this Chrono
capture how do we find a different way
to relate to the Future
[Music]
memories
are what we create our future with so
undoing preconceived ways of knowing
is an opening up of possibility spaces
in the practice of divination a
preliminary step is the suspension of
rational thoughts that would otherwise
be mechanically governing one's
perspective
in order to receive guidance for
something you do not know you can't know
what you're looking for
guidance transmitted through a sort of
medium whether a book a deck of cards
the elemental organic beings even one's
own senses
and this way of mediumship comes by
negation of preconceived knowing to
transfer agency to another source of
knowing the intermingling with chance
has been shown to remove human-centric
bias being receptive to guidance is an
act of deep respectivizing to allow for
perspectivism
intention
poetic engineering prescribe meaning
[Music]
emancipation from the linear Progressive
times killing Arrow mode is the
resonance with more than human time
a Time beyond that which human
lover
by the responsibility still reaches
Slow Time cyclical time the kind of
detailing
we can think about this to the lengths
of our thoughts but what does more than
human time feel like
significant value lies in the ritual
aspect of divination
our reality is made of myths and
fictions that become lived out to a
reality
the embodiment of creating new
narratives lies in Being Human as Praxis
to follow the concept of decolonial
thinker Sylvia winter
we humans cannot pre-exist our origin
stories myths narratives any more than a
bee at a purely biological level can
pre-exist its beehive human beings are
magical bios and logos words made flesh
muscle and bone animated we hope and
desire and the maps of spring
on again
practices we live out
go write our cosmologies
and we urgently need practices that can
help us cope between a dying way of
worlding and to know when we want to
exist
embedded within this rehabituating
ritual model
divination is not a single event or
answer but a continual practice of how
we can consciously relate to an
ecological future
attention
listening is Presence by way of absence
resonance
by way of receptivity
in such an urgent time can we slow down
time
slow careful practice of attention
and this atmosphere of interaction is
needed
thank you the fabric we
are a mission
in order to understand how to better
respond
I meditated on this
installation at biosphere 2.
potential Nancy or tree divination and
dendrochronology
both dating by tree rings
that was founded
virtues located
an ancient tradition that spawned the
Celtic language of trees based on
semiotic connection from communing with
trees of the landscape the symbolic
meanings have been have been interpreted
intuited for guidance it could be said
that the intuiting comes from
the present to understand the future
dendrochronology
a scientific method originated from an
astronomer's attempt at observing
sunspots through trees
which revealed the realization that tree
rings reveal a wealth of information
about their local climates The Gaze
reaching outwards and Beyond the Earth
reflected back to a gaze in a localized
within the lines of
libraries of timestamps have
recalibrated what we know about
environmental changes and have become a
part of a chronological dance that is
informing forecasting within climate
science
between this mystical practice and this
scientific one lie not only in telling
time with trees
it's also in the perspective of more
than human participation with time that
can help us understand what conditions
make certain ecological Futures possible
to be brought into the present
extension the body outside of itself
another Elemental divinatory method to
Think Through is water scrying
the word describing the word scrying
comes from the word describing which
means to catch sight of something far
away or dim by observing very carefully
water scribe
a divinatory method by which one gazes
into water in a meditative State asks
guidance for the unknown and then
employees intuition to pull out images
and sensory correspondence
gazes softly to the point of Trance the
reflective surfaces dance
that correspond to an openness to a
Stillness in the precognitive
a practice of how one senses their
environment by allowing oneself to be an
interface to be an interface rational
epistemology suspends for a moment to be
able to listen to the watery sensory
spaces outside of conventional
thoughtscape divination by scrying does
not so much look outwards towards the
future but inwards towards one's
relationship with the future
this sounds like very simple meditation
but its significance lies and being a
practice situated in a landscape of
future
[Music]
presence moment where digital
Technologies are often foreign
[Music]
relationship with indeterminism and
chance
to explore
cultivating and embodied Futurity
of divination
[Music]
Nations and cultivating
that might change the way we interface
with more than human
clothes
memory of change
[Music]
this will close coming back to the form
of ritual practice
a process-focused repetition lays the
groundwork for a continual catalysts of
change
in tumultuous Landscapes Between Worlds
we will have to go through release and
renewal again and again
maybe divinatory practice is a way of
coping as we seek forms of endurance to
embrace maybe a breaking open of time as
a pivot of recursivity shaping a circle
into a spiral
maybe a re-remembering
like rolling waves
folding back into themselves within each
fold dreaming new
Doom of change
thank you
[Applause]
oh no thank you so much
that was amazing hello
are you the one that's working hello
thanks so much Paige
um I think that something that really
comes to mind for me in thinking through
your work and thinking through these
ideas about divination that are so
practice based is methodologies for
getting started I was wondering if you
could talk a little bit about how the
audience might be able to or any
practical methodologies for being able
to engage in this kind
sensing and feeling and unpredicting of
the future
sure like a very practical approach yeah
yeah
um I touched on this a little bit but
um
so the form of the talk that I gave is
actually also a form of ritual which was
open create environment release adoption
intention prescribe meaning
attention
um
listening by way of absence Presence by
way of absence extension the body
outside of itself and then close create
memory of change so with that the first
step opening and creating environments
so sort of setting a space where you
know you can practice and not be
distracted in something and then the
first step after that adoption release
was when I really actually focused on
throughout this talk of how much work it
takes to actually undo
um
habitual patterning already in our minds
that would otherwise be blocking from
opening up to sensing
um
yeah I I have a funny anecdote but it's
not
um a confirmed fact but it's something
that's interesting I was talking to this
researcher of um earthquakes who studies
animals ability to predict earthquakes
which some animals can predict up to 48
hours and he kind of sits with the
different animals who can sense these um
his his hypothesis was that humans
should be able to have this kind of
sensing of earthquakes but the biggest
thing in the way of it is discourse
which is an interesting hypothesis from
this scientific researcher doing this
kind of work but um so and this isn't
not in any form I love discourse and
intellect and and research and science
but it's more like to actually be able
to be in a frame of thinking something
new to
um this moment of pause and and being
able to the non-thinking by the way
non-thinking is differentiated from not
thinking where non-thinking is more just
the suspension of Habitual patterns but
it's a generative passivity
much Paige the last thing that I want to
ask you about is you mentioned in your
work and obviously the to calibrate with
three tree divination is is speaking to
this the relationship between dungeon
mancy and dendrochronology and I was
wondering if you could share a little
bit more about some of the connections
or disconnections that you found in kind
of relating these two uh two different
very different kinds of of processes
sure um
well I can start by the reason I chose
this so like I said this the pieces are
out here but they were originally for an
installation at Biosphere 2 which is the
largest experiment on like ecological
systems ever done on Earth the last time
I checked unless something has come up
since then um just you know the largest
like enclosed space that has um is able
to experiment with these biomes in a way
and Biosphere 2 was started as a um
as testing these biomes to live on Mars
and now
um down the history of events now it's
working toward on climate science and I
wanted to draw a parallel where like I
mentioned Dental chronology originated
from an astronomers view out into outer
space and ended up finding how much tree
lines could teach us about the local
environment and I wanted to emphasize
this point of
this outward reach of this kind of like
feeling of dominating Frontier like
humans can go you know do all these
things as this mirror of like what does
that show us about our very localized
environments and how we are actually
like where our gaze is coming from The
Point of Departure our gaze is coming
from and how important it is to be
present with our local environments to
understand this so
um this is why I chose Endocrinology
because
um and the comparison is I love how you
have to look so closely I looked at a
bunch of the tree ring studies and it's
um it felt so similar because you're
actually reading the lines of trees and
that feels like a divination practice
itself even though it is a scientific
method
um yeah so I mean similarities that
maybe are
um a bit apparent there where you're
looking both practices you're looking at
the trees and reading them where um and
I mean the differences is one is taken
more seriously than the other one I
guess
pretty funny thank you so much ph that
was wonderful thank you thank you
foreign
[Applause]